Remo Salam is a un special reporter on
violence against women and children she
joins us from Aman an estimated 70% of
Palestinians killed in Gaza have been
women and children does that set this
conflict
apart it's common for at least half of
um casualties to be women and children
but certainly what we've seen here has
surpassed anything we've seen in in
recent conflicts uh I think you would
agree that actors on the ground have run
out of words to describe really the
Unspeakable level of suffering and
Horrors on the ground in Gaza um the
commissioner for un lazarini had
described it as a living hell and I
would say that within this hell being a
Palestinian woman or a child has really
meant being stripped of any Humanity
dignity safety or any special
considerations that would be usually
given to women and children in times of
peace or conflict i i in fact cannot
think of any protection that uh
Palestinians that civilians are entitled
to according to the laws of war that
have been upheld in this conflict and I
cannot think of any violation of the
laws of war and human rights that uh
Palestinians uh including women and
children have not been subjected to what
kind of protection should women and
children get in uh International
humanitarian or law what would a war
look like that tries to respect that
aspect of international
law well everything that uh shouldn't
happen is happening now according to the
Geneva conventions and the laws of
conflict so all this indiscriminate
bombing slaughtering the forceful
dispossession uh unfolding genocide the
deliberate starvation the deliberate uh
uh denial of water uh the denial of
humanitarian Aid the attacks on
humanitarian actors like unua like the
red crescent um the the bombing of
Civilian infrastructure all these are
things that shouldn't happen according
to the laws of war and of course within
that also women have specific
protections because they are women
they're supposed to be um also given you
know uh consideration and care for the
fact that they're being women like for
example when they are menstruating like
for example reproductive health and we
know also of the onslaught that we have
seen on pregnant women uh women giving
birth on infants uh we have now
seemingly moved from uh bombing children
including infants to leaving them to die
uh and decompose in hospitals to now
apparently also executing them in Cold
Blood what's it like being a 5-year-old
in Gaza right now
H being a 5-year-old in Gaza probably
having lost both of your parents and all
your siblings having lost a limb um
seeing no future trying to survive uh
being soaked wet right now under the the
rain uh going hungry not being able to
eat in
days um and uh feeling very abandoned by
the world Rema salm un special rapporter
on violence against women and children
thank you very much for joining us on
the program
today thank you